# 30DaysOfReact
Work done along with 30 Days of React
30 Days of JavaScript was such a good learning tool I decided to move right on into React.

## Day 1
Nothing new yet, but a good review of 30 days of JavaScript. It is nice to see that I am able to solve these problems with more alacrity than I had previously.

## Day 2 
Scaffolding a React app and working with JSX elements and babel. Writing JavaScript in babel reminds me of an ORM and it probably is something very similar. It was however explained that this method of using React is being shown only for the purpose of understanding how React works. Future days will utilize create-react-app.

## Day 3
First create-react-app boilerplate day! Most of the boilerplate was removed and JSX elements were used to create the page. Importing modules and files this way is a new way of working with files. Making a basic website from 95% JavaScript has never been easier! I eagerly await tomorrows challenge.

## Day 4
Work with React elements has started, creating function based elements that return JSX. Data is being injected into the JSX elements for various sources like object attributes, and random colors. Working with styles that are dependent upon variables within the function is a little tricky at the moment. However at this moment there is no CSS file and therefor CSS classes are not being utilized. At the moment styles are being defined as an object within the index.js file. I assume this will change as the days continue, but it is always nice to learn to methods to work around problems that are encountered.

## Day 5
The focus of day is on how to utilize props to pass data between React components. Getting a little bit of box in a box syndrome at this point. JSX wrapped in functions wrapped in other components and data passing between all of them. I get why this is being done, creating apps this way make parts reusable and allows for programmatic creation of elements on screen. The exercise are still only producing a static page at this point. I am ready to start creating features that are not just a static display. Its about time to start making React react to user interactions.

## Day 6
Day 6 focuses on using map to create several components from source data. Using map on arrays of strings, numbers, objects, etc to programmatically create react components. The day also briefly touches on Keys. Not much was discussed other than keys help React detect what has been changed, keys have to be unique, and that you should use keys. I assume this will be discussed in more detail in a later day. I worked on a different computer for this day, I found out it is much easier to get node.js and npm working on a Linux machine than a Windows one. Also a note for challenging machines while working with React, the node_modules folder is untracked by default. When cloning to different machines nothing works without it! One extra thing I have picked up while working on these challenges is, the Object.assign() method in JavaScript. Creating the color sheets in the challenges required a unique style to be set for every component. Looking for a way to do this I found Object.assign(), it worked like a charm and allowed me to combine the style object I had created with another with the unique styles.

## Day 7
Day seven is the start of work with class based React components extending the React.component class. I am glad we have made it to this point as everything I have looked up for troubleshooting React issues showed solutions in class based components. The progression of the materials created for the challenges is most excellent. Each day has built upon the previous ideas and then morphs the previous day's work to adapt to new ideas and tools that are introduced each day. The work done on day six was adapted to class based components to complete the day seven challenges. I struggled with destructuring props at first with the class based components. I could not seem to get the data carrier hooked up correctly. In the end I was able to get it all working, the problem was that I was getting to specific when assigning variables. I was using code like this.props.numbers when in fact all I needed was this.props.  This is why I enjoy this style of learning the struggle through problems like this give me a deeper understanding of what is actually happening. 

## Day 8
Day eight focused on the use of states withing class based React components. At this point I see why React documentation talk about making reusable components. The random country generator box created for the challenge this day helped me to understand the reason this is said so often. A shell is created then React will make a component when ever you ask. The further in I get the more this works like the Django template language, just less curly brackets :) The introduction of states really makes me think about all the things I will soon be able to do with React. Maybe there will be happy components and sad components that randomly flip upside down! This has no practical use though and the practical uses of states is what will interest me the most. These practical uses will also be a better use of time for building USEFUL skills.

## Day 9
Conditional rendering, this threw me into a loop, literally. While working on conditional formatting I ended up crashing my computer by creating an infinite loop within a React component. The loop was implicit as I told the component to have JavaScript that made the component again! This ended in an infinite regression and pegged my system memory causing an OS crash. Everything was in working order in the end though. Using conditional formatting along with Component states was the task for the day, this included setting colors in an app based on time and dat, along with creating a fake loading state and simulating a data fetch for a component. This second exercise seemed silly at first, making a fake loading period for a component. After constructing the component accordingly though, it became apparent to me how changing the component to make a real request would be simple. The timeout function can be replaced with anything that might take time, and the component will switch to a loading state until the data requested is received.

## Day 10
File structuring and organization, up until this point in the challenges all the components hav been constructed in the index.js file. This has now changed and every component has been separated into its own directory. Now the reusability of the React component is sitting right in front of me as the challenge for this day required adding all previously completed components to a single app, with each component having its own folder. These folders seem to be easily changed between React apps, along with being reusable within the original app in which they were created. Since the file structure is completely up to the developer, I will have to make sure that I pay extra attention to creating these structures in an organized way. At this point I am 1/3 of the way through the challenges and I am starting to feel very confident working with SINGLE pages in React. One big long page is not normally how sites or apps are designed and I am ready to start adding more "pages" to a single page application.

## Day 11
This day covered DOM events. Work has already been done in the previous challenges with a single event. This was just an expansion on events and the other events available to use. The exercise for the day had me create a box that runs away from the mouse when hovered over. I call it the worlds best unsubscribe button :)

## Day 12
Work with forms and React for day 12. What good is an application that cannot have data input, forms are critical!. 
### The idea that I get on how to handle forms with React is like this: 
1. Create an input, and a corresponding state attribute, and touched state
1. Create an onChange event listener that updates the corresponding state attribute
1. Add an onBlur event listener for the input that updates the touched status and allows a validation function to return a value for errors
1. Empty error elements are then updated if validation returns any errors

There was not much to the exercises for this day. Building validation for a for with many data types was the goal. Every input type is present in the form to get practice working with a variety of form elements. The live update on input validation is much snappier that validation on after a click or purely server side validation. It makes the form feel much more responsive.

## Day 13
This day just talked on the differences between controlled and uncontrolled inputs in React. Uncontrolled inputs were shown and then recommended against using them unless needed. The file input type has some caveat that make React unable to control inputs of this type. The instant validation is not present when React does not control the input through a component. The moral of today is, use component states to control inputs whenever possible. If you find yourself in a position where an input need to be uncontrolled use a ref is needed to get that data from the DOM.

## Day 14 
Day 14 was about the lifecycle of React components. There is three stages it seems to this lifecycle: Mounting, Updating, and Unmounting. Each stage has its own built-in methods for handling the processes related to each stage. The mounting stage is responsible for loading initial data into components and the mounting it to the DOM. Mounting is related to the methods the Component methods: constructor(), getDerivedStateFromProps(), render(), and componentDidMount(). The update stage handles any changes to the component while mounted, this is done through the state and props associated with the component. The methods associated with the update stage are: getDerivedStateFromProps(), shouldComponentUpdate(), render(), getSnapshotBeforeUpdate(), and componentDidUpdate(). The final stage of the lifecycle unmounting handles removing the component from the DOM. There is ony one method associated with the unmount stage is componentWillUnmount(). There were still no exercises to do for this day, hopefully they start back up soon as I have enjoyed working with React thus far. 

## Day 15
Installing third party JavaScript packages for use in a React application. NPM is the package manager used but node JS, and it has been used to install a few things for previous challenges. The process of then using an installed package is a simple import statement away from working. The lesson encourages research into the third party packages Axios and Sass. These are both neat packages, Axios can streamline the process of inserting any requests into you code. Sass is a neat program that allows for more programmatic approaches to styling user interfaces. After seeing DON'T REPEAT YOURSELF so much, it seemed odd that CSS required so much repetition, it is nice to know there is a a better option for styling applications.   